# Inequalities-in-276-conditions
## Background
Unjust health inequalities increase the disease burden of many populations, particularly among socioeconomically deprived and minority ethnic populations in the UK. This study systematically examined the incidence and prevalence of 276 significant chronic conditions in primary care to further identify and understand disparities across diverse population subgroups.
## Methods
We conducted a population-based retrospective cohort study of common conditions using the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD)Gold , from 01-01-2006 to 31-12-2021, and primarily report trends from 2019 due to pandemic disruption. Incidence rates and prevalence estimates were calculated annually, standardised using UK population estimates, and further stratified by age, sex, ethnicity, deprivation and region. We used statistical process control methods to describe subgroups compared with the overall population, demonstrating underdiagnosis, and describe cardiometabolic conditions in more detail.
## Results
The study included 13,419,645 patients from 986 practices. Hypertension was the most prevalent condition in 2019 (22.47%). Many subgroups showed evidence of substantial underdiagnosis of conditions, with Black populations having a 35% lower chance of any given diagnosis than the overall population, Asian 34% lower and Others and Mixed ethnicities 30% lower. Depression shows a gradient of increasing prevalence with increasing deprivation, but for actinic keratosis,  prevalence increased in less deprived populations. In a cardiometabolic conditions deep dive, we found increased diabetes prevalence in minority groups, but lower rates of myocardial infarction. 
## Discussion
This study provides a crucial resource for identifying health disparities in the UK and opportunities for targeted intervention. Significant underdiagnosis rates among Black, Asian, and Mixed ethnicities highlight an urgent need across many conditions for tailored healthcare strategies to ensure equitable diagnosis and treatment access. Detailed demographic breakdown of the dataset generates insights that can guide the development of more inclusive health policies, ultimately reducing health inequalities and improving overall public health outcomes.
